There are some [fancy tools][1] for doing build automation on javascript
projects that I've never felt the appeal of because the lesser-known`npm run`
command has been perfectly adequate for everything I've needed to do while 
maintaining a very tiny configuration footprint.

Here are some tricks I use to get the most out of `npm run` and the 
`package.json` "scripts" field.

## the scripts field

If you haven't seen it before, [npm][2] looks at a field called `scripts` in
the package.json of a project in order to make things like`npm test` from the
`scripts.test` field and `npm start` from the `scripts.start` field work.

`npm test` and `npm start` are just shortcuts for `npm run test` and 
`npm run start` and you can use `npm run` to run whichever entries in the 
`scripts` field you want!

Another thing that makes `npm run` really great is that npm will automatically
set up`$PATH` to look in `node_modules/.bin`, so you can just run commands
supplied by dependencies and devDependencies directly without doing a global 
install. Packages from npm that you might want to incorporate into your task 
workflow only need to expose a simple command-line interface and you can always 
write a simple little program yourself!

## building javascript

I write my browser code with node-style commonjs `module.exports` and 
`require()` to organize my code and to use packages published to npm. 
[browserify][3] can resolve all the `require()` calls statically as a build
step to create a single concatenated bundle file you can load with a single 
script tag. To use browserify I can just have a`scripts['build-js']` entry in
package.json that looks like:

    "build-js": "browserify browser/main.js > static/bundle.js"

If I want my javascript build step for production to also do minification, I
can just add`uglify-js` as a devDependency and insert it straight into the
pipeline:

    "build-js": "browserify browser/main.js | uglifyjs -mc > static/bundle.js"

## watching javascript

To recompile my browser javascript automatically whenever I change a file, I
can just substitude the`browserify` command for [watchify][4] and add `-d` and
`-v` for debugging and more verbose output:

    "watch-js": "watchify browser/main.js -o static/bundle.js -dv"

## building css

I find that `cat` is usually adequate so I just have a script that looks
something like:

    "build-css": "cat static/pages/*.css tabs/*/*.css > static/bundle.css"

## watching css

Similarly to my watchify build, I can recompile css as it changes by
substituting`cat` with [catw][5]:

    "watch-css": "catw static/pages/*.css tabs/*/*.css -o static/bundle.css -v"

## sequential sub-tasks

If you have 2 tasks you want to run in series, you can just `npm run` each task
separated by a`&&`: 

    "build": "npm run build-js && npm run build-css"

## parallel sub-tasks

If you want to run some tasks in parallel, just use `&` as the separator!

    "watch": "npm run watch-js & npm run watch-css"

## the complete package.json

Altogether, the package.json I've just described might look like:

    {
      "name": "my-silly-app",
      "version": "1.2.3",
      "private": true,
      "dependencies": {
        "browserify": "~2.35.2",
        "uglifyjs": "~2.3.6"
      },
      "devDependencies": {
        "watchify": "~0.1.0",
        "catw": "~0.0.1",
        "tap": "~0.4.4"
      },
      "scripts": {
        "build-js": "browserify browser/main.js | uglifyjs -mc > static/bundle.js",
        "build-css": "cat static/pages/*.css tabs/*/*.css",
        "build": "npm run build-js && npm run build-css",
        "watch-js": "watchify browser/main.js -o static/bundle.js -dv",
        "watch-css": "catw static/pages/*.css tabs/*/*.css -o static/bundle.css -v",
        "watch": "npm run watch-js & npm run watch-css",
        "start": "node server.js",
        "test": "tap test/*.js"
      }
    }

If I want to build for production I can just do `npm run build` and for local
development I can just do`npm run watch`!

You can extend this basic approach however you like! For instance you might
want to run the`build` step before running `start`, so you could just do:

    "start": "npm run build && node server.js"

or perhaps you want an `npm run start-dev` command that also starts the
watchers:

    "start-dev": "npm run watch & npm start"

You can reorganize the pieces however you want!

## when things get really complicated...

If you find yourself stuffing a lot of commands into a single `scripts` field
entry, consider factoring some of those commands out into someplace like`bin/`

You can write those scripts in bash or node or perl or whatever. Just put the
proper`#!` line at the top of the file, `chmod +x`, and you're good to go:

    #!/bin/bash
    (cd site/main; browserify browser/main.js | uglifyjs -mc > static/bundle.js)
    (cd site/xyz; browserify browser.js > static/bundle.js)

    "build-js": "bin/build.sh"

If you absolutely need your project to build on windows, just make sure that
your windows devs have a copy of[msysgit][6] which ships with bash or cygwin or
something similar. Or tell them to get a UNIX.

I have [some experiments][7] in the works to help with this windows-can't-run-
bash problem, but the job control and subshell sections aren't finished yet.

## conclusion

I hope that this `npm run` approach I've documented here will appeal to some of
you who may be unimpressed with the current state of frontend task automation 
tooling, particularly those of you like me who just don't "get" the appeal of 
some of these things. I tend to prefer tools that are more steeped in the unix 
heritage like git or here with npm just providing a rather minimal interface on 
top of bash. Some things really don't require a lot of ceremony or coordination 
and you can often get a lot of mileage out of very simple tools that do very 
ordinary things.

If you don't like the `npm run` style I've elaborated upon here you might also
consider Makefiles as a solid and simple alternative to some of the more baroque
approaches to task automation making the rounds these days.

 [1]: http://gruntjs.com/
 [2]: https://npmjs.org
 [3]: http://browserify.org
 [4]: https://npmjs.org/package/watchify
 [5]: https://npmjs.org/package/catw
 [6]: https://github.com/msysgit/msysgit#the-build-environment
 [7]: https://npmjs.org/package/bashful